Add preview docs for Alias any type (#35112)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/value-tuples.md

As the preceding example shows, you can work with the returned tuple instance directly or [deconstruct](#tuple-assignment-and-deconstruction) it in separate variables.

You can also use tuple types instead of [anonymous types](../../fundamentals/types/anonymous-types.md); for example, in LINQ queries. For more information, see [Choosing between anonymous and tuple types](../../../standard/base-types/choosing-between-anonymous-and-tuple.md).

Typically, you use tuples to group loosely related data elements. In public APIs, consider defining a [class](../keywords/class.md) or a [structure](struct.md) type.

## Tuple field names

You explicitly specify tuple fields names in a tuple initialization expression or in the definition of a tuple type, as the following example shows:

[!code-csharp-interactive[explicit field names](snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs#ExplicitFieldNames)]

If you don't specify a field name, it may be inferred from the name of the corresponding variable in a tuple initialization expression, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="InferFieldNames":::

> The preceding example is called tuple projection initializers. The name of a variable isn't projected onto a tuple field name in the following cases:

Reviewer: Why is this update? I don't think we can *call* an example tuple project initializers.  "That" refers to the sentence prior example, not to the example.
```suggestion
That's called tuple projection initializers. The name of a variable isn't projected onto a tuple field name in the following cases:
```

Author: Good point.

> [!TIP]
> Enable .NET code style rule [IDE0037](../../../fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0037.md) to set a preference on inferred or explicit tuple field names.

> Beginning with C# 12, you can specify an alias for a tuple type with a [`using` statement](../keywords/using-directive.md#using-alias). The following example adds a `global using` alias for a Tuple type with two integer values for an allowed `Min` and `Max` value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beginning with C# 12, you can specify an alias for a tuple type with a [`using` directive](../keywords/using-directive.md#using-alias). The following example adds a `global using` alias for a tuple type with two integer values for an allowed `Min` and `Max` value:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="AliasTupleType":::

> After declaring the alias, you can use the `BandPass` name as an alias for that tuple type:

Reviewer: I have two questions related to aliasing tuple types.

Question 1. Does alias hold information about tuple field names? That is, if I have two aliases like following:
```csharp
global using BandPass = (int Min, int Max);
global using KeyValue = (int Key, int Value);
```

and there is a method that accepts `BandPass` parameter, can I pass a `KeyValue` argument to this method? If yes, then the code looks type safe, while it's not. (of course it's type safe, because actual types here are `ValueTuple<int, int>`)

Question 2. Why should I define a (global) alias for a tuple type and not a positional `record struct` instead:
```csharp
public record struct BandPass(int Min, int Max);
```

Semantics looks the same (equality by component values, `record struct` instances are mutable, deconstruction), but additionally we get type safety. Possible performance overhead may be ignored in the majority of cases, I believe. Have I missed anything here? Would it be fine to say: "If you want to define an alias for a tuple type, consider defining a `record struct` instead."?

Should the docs elaborate on these two questions and give any advice (especially for the second question)?

Author: Addressed in the most recent commit.

Thanks @pkulikov Those are great questions that needed clarification.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="AliasTupleType":::

After declaring the alias, you can use the `BandPass` name as an alias for that tuple type:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="UseAliasType":::

An alias doesn't introduce a new *type*, but only creates a synonym for an existing type. You can deconstruct a tuple declared with the `BandPass` alias the same as you can with its underlying tuple type:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="AliasSynonymUses":::

As with tuple assignment or deconstruction, the tuple member names don't need to match; the types do.

Similarly, a second alias with the same arity and member types can be used interchangeably with the original alias. You could declare a second alias:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="AliasSynonym":::

You can assign a `Range` tuple to a `BandPass` tuple. As with all tuple assignment, the field names need not match, only the types and the arity.

> :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="AliasSynonymUses":::

Author: Nope. That snippet should be split in two. Fixed

Tuple element values are assigned following the order of tuple elements. The names of tuple fields are ignored and not assigned, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="Assignment":::

You can also use the assignment operator `=` to *deconstruct* a tuple instance in separate variables. You can do that in many ways:

- Explicitly declare the type of each variable inside parentheses:

  :::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="DeconstructExplicit":::

- Use the `var` keyword outside the parentheses to declare implicitly typed variables and let the compiler infer their types:

  :::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="DeconstructVar":::

- Use existing variables:

  :::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="snippets/shared/ValueTuples.cs" id="DeconstructExisting":::

> Any of these can be combined in a single deconstruction expression.

Reviewer: That's not true.
(1) and (2) cannot be combined, (2) and (3) cannot be combined, while (1) and (3) can be combined.
Currently, there is duplication in the docs between this section and the [Tuples section in the deconstruction article](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/fundamentals/functional/deconstruct#tuples). The deconstruction doc is more complete, though. We should

- either copy content from the deconstruct article to this article
- or to remove duplication and reference one article from another
- something else

Reviewer: I can create the separate related PR after we come to the conclusion and merge this PR, as this PR is really not about deconstruction.

Author: Thanks @pkulikov 

I'll fix this text so that it's correct. Over the medium term, I want to update the articles on discards, deconstruction, and tuples to more closely align with dotnet/csharpstandard#664, the updates in the standard. The main shift in focus is to consider discards a unique kind of local variable, and then consider deconstruction and tuples as ways to declare local variables.

> You can also combine deconstruction with [pattern matching](../../fundamentals/functional/pattern-matching.md) to inspect the characteristics of fields in a tuple. The following example loops through several integers and prints those that are divisible by 3. It deconstructs the tuple result of <xref:System.Int32.DivRem%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> and matches against a `Remainder` of 0:

Reviewer: To match the article text, the example should be updated as follows:
```csharp
if (Math.DivRem(i, 3) is ( Quotient: var q, Remainder: 0 ))
{
    Console.WriteLine($"{i} is divisible by 3, with quotient {q}");
}
```

Note parentheses instead of braces (that transforms property pattern to positional pattern) and swapped quotient and remainder.
